# CYRUS.py

The commonsense acceptance of the city at face value belies the complex and often contradictory dynamics which are operating beneath the surface. <i>CYRUS.py</i> is an experimental intertextual poetics exploring notions of counterpublic identity, enclosure, hacker practice and terrorism in metropolises/netropolises. <i>CYRUS.py</i> combines cherry-picked output from two different python scripts: one program generates cut-up texts drawn from five writings—<i>Fight Club</i>, <i>Invisible Man</i>, <i>Professionals of Hope: The Selected Writings of Subcomandante Marcos</i>, <i>Hackers</i> (by Aase Berg), and <i>The Warriors</i> original movie script. In addition to the five writings mentioned, the program also draws textual material from a Wikipedia list of local winds around the world. The other program generates spam-like strings of words/phrases flagged by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. All of the code can be located here: https://www.dropbox.com/s/kmjaerycd1d4mj3/pycode.zip?dl=0. <i>CYRUS.py</i> also includes extracts from various sources exploring the aforementioned topics. The form of <i>CYRUS.py</i> is certainly inspired by the cut-up method, popularized by the Dadaists and later William S. Burroughs, but also the practice of flânerie—in all its forms.<br>

In his 1863 essay, “The Painter of Modern Life,” poet Charles Baudelaire identified a new metropolitan figure, the <i>flâneur</i>—a roaming “passionate spectator” of the streets and shopping arcades of nineteenth-century Paris:<br>

“The crowd is his element, as the air is that of birds and water of fishes. His passion and his profession are to become one flesh with the crowd. For the perfect flâneur, for the passionate spectator, it is an immense joy to set up house in the heart of the multitude, amid the ebb and flow of movement, in the midst of the fugitive and the infinite. To be away from home and yet to feel oneself everywhere at home; to see the world, to be at the centre of the world, and yet to remain hidden from the world—impartial natures which the tongue can but clumsily define. The spectator is a prince who everywhere rejoices in his incognito. The lover of life makes the whole world his family, just like the lover of the fair sex who builds up his family from all the beautiful women that he has ever found, or that are or are not—to be found; or the lover of pictures who lives in a magical society of dreams painted on canvas. Thus the lover of universal life enters into the crowd as though it were an immense reservoir of electrical energy. Or we might liken him to a mirror as vast as the crowd itself; or to a kaleidoscope gifted with consciousness, responding to each one of its movements and reproducing the multiplicity of life and the flickering grace of all the elements of life.”

Baudelaire’s gendered male flâneur is the consummate aesthete-wanderer of the city; he is a mythic character who empirically collects social artifacts and experiences of metropolitan life. Chris Jenks states the flâneur “possesses a power, it walks at will, freely and seemingly without purpose, but simultaneously with an inquisitive wonder and an infinite capacity to absorb the activities of the collective—often formulated as ‘the crowd.’” The flâneur is a somewhat paradoxical persona. This spectator is a paragon of metropolitan living in certain ways, an individual profoundly captivated by the heterogeneous movement of the city. Unlike a tourist, he knows how to navigate through the city to unlock its secrets, even finding peculiar beauty in its detritus. Although the flâneur is surrounded by other urban dwellers, he only superficially interacts with them. He of course needs the crowd, after all, this frenetic body is in large part what makes the cityscape so intoxicating for him. But somehow, he is distinct from the crowd. Is the flâneur anti-social? Voyeuristic? Is the flâneur even real? Baudelaire modeled the flâneur archetype after a real person, artist Constantin Guys, but also states that aspects of the persona are “pure poetic hypothesis, conjecture, a labor of the imagination.” Baudelaire highlighted other urban figures in his writing as well; the prostitute and rag-picker figure prominently in “The Painter of Modern Life.” James Donald points out that “in these marginal, despised figures, living on their wits and for reading the signs of the city rightly could be a matter of life or death, Baudelaire saw an image of the modern poet’s social interaction and role.” This statement underscores a salient fact about Baudelaire’s flâneur; the figure is not a passive observer—he learns from what and who he views. The flâneur has a unique romance with the city, offering up honest, but loving assessments of its body. The flâneur intimately listens to the arrhythmic pulse of the city’s center, but, at the same time is a humble pupil of the marginal figures in the shadows.

Walter Benjamin attempted to recreate Baudelaire’s mythical Paris, the birthplace of the flâneur. His colossal (yet, unfinished?) study of nineteenth century Paris, <i>The Arcades Project</i>, adds depth to Baudelaire’s flâneur character and examines why this peripatetic figure largely vanishes from the urban landscape towards the end of the nineteenth century. Poet Kenneth Goldsmith characterizes <i>The Arcades Project</i> as a master work of annotation made up of “refuse and detritus, writing history by paying attention to the margins and the peripheries rather than the center: bits of newspaper articles, arcane passages of forgotten histories, ephemeral sensations, weather conditions, political tracts, advertisements, literary quips, stray verse, accounts of dreams…” In essence, a flâneuric investigation of language. Benjamin, who began <i>The Arcades Project</i> in 1927, constructed the book by reading through the “corpus of literature about Paris in the nineteenth century,” and then copying down anecdotes that he found intriguing. Through this “sculptural” process of collecting and then annotating, a visage of nineteenth century Paris emerged.

<b>Notes:</b><br>

“With an unprecedented amount of available text, our problem is not needing to write more of it; instead, we must learn to negotiate the vast quantity that exists. How I make my way through this thicket of information—how I manage it, parse it, organize and distribute it—is what distinguishes my writing from yours.”

“Losing your way, or drifting, is part and parcel of the reading experience as its come to us in its finalized form, regardless of whether or not Benjamin’s book is ‘unfinished.’”<br>
– Kenneth Goldsmith<br>
http://veramaurinapress.com/pdfs/Kenneth-Goldsmith_uncreative-writing.pdf<br>
